This video describes the benefits you can expect to see
from InnerSource collaboration described in this Learning Path.
Remember that InnerSource applies
when a Guest team needs functionality from a Host
that they aren't able to deliver.
The immediate benefit of InnerSource is that there's a scalable way
for the Guest to get the functionality they need,
when they need it, without the long-term burden of maintaining it.
That result is the shining benefit of InnerSource, and its very exciting.
There are benefits to the Host team as well.
Remember that as part of the process of InnerSource,
the Host team has agreed that the submitted functionality
is good and useful and desirable.
That means that the Host is getting
engineering help in making their product better.
Better for the submitting guest,
and also all the other consumers in the Host ecosystem.
This effect
gives the Host team a strategy for scaling the engineering time
being put into its products.
During times of high demand for change
in the Host team's products,
the engineering capacity to make those changes
will organically appear
in the form of guest contributors submitting via InnerSource.
I've personally seen this effect on a team I was on.
There was a period of a few months
where we experienced very high demand for changes in our systems.
During that time, we were able to nearly double our engineering throughput
by focusing our time on facilitating the many InnerSource contributions
that came in from all around the company.
InnerSource became our force multiplier,
allowing us to temporarily act larger than we were,
to fill the demand of the organization.
All of this change happened without formal management involvement.
There were no additional planning, alignment, or strategy meetings.
No reallocation of resource. No stretch goals.
InnerSource allowed engineering time
to organically flow where the organization needed it.
When the time was over,
we scaled back to our normal engineering throughput and capacity.
Now Host teams that regularly receive InnerSource contributions
also have fantastic requirements and prioritization alignment.
Every Host will do its best
to ensure that it's working on what its consumers need
in a way that's useful for 'em.
But there's no substitute when
a Guest team is the one submitting the actual code.
There's certainty that what is submitted will be useful for them.
And it's something that they need right now.
Sure, it's only one team.
But that Guest team is likely representative
of many others in the Host team's ecosystem.
Regular participation in InnerSource
also breaks down traditional company engineering silos.
In the individual projects that are collaborated on,
as more and more contributors submit,
the project becomes more and more useful to more parts of the company.
Also, there's a change in the hearts and minds of the participating engineers,
to break down that engineering silo mindset.
I've seen that happen.
Engineers that are introduced to InnerSource through a successful project
carry the cross-team collaboration mindset to other parts of their daily work.
There's so many benefits to be had from InnerSource.
Guest teams can get what they want, when they want it,
without having to maintain it long term.
Host teams have help in building their products.
They can scale organically for the needs of the organization.
They get fantastic requirements and prioritization alignment.
And engineering silos within the company break down.
All these benefits are to be had through
effective application of the principles of InnerSource.